clarify collection signature not available from Community Galaxy (#78386)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/user_guide/collections_using.rst

Collections are a distribution format for Ansible content that can include playbooks, roles, modules, and plugins. As modules move from the core Ansible repository into collections, the module documentation will move to the :ref:`collections pages <list_of_collections>`.

> You can install and use collections through `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com>`_ or a `self-hosted Galaxy server <https://galaxyng.netlify.app/>`_.

Author: ```suggestion
You can install and use collections through a distribution server, such as `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com>`_ or a `Pulp 3 Galaxy server <https://galaxyng.netlify.app/>`_.
```

.. include:: ../shared_snippets/installing_collections.txt

.. _installing_signed_collections:

Installing collections with signature verification
---------------------------------------------------

> If a collection has been signed by a :term:`self-hosted Galaxy` server, the server will provide ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the ``MANIFEST.json`` before using it to verify the collection's contents. This option is not available on community Galaxy.

Reviewer: This section has the same issue with `self-hosted`, but I like the flow of it.

Signature verification
----------------------

> If a collection has been signed by the Automation Hub or self-hosted pulp or on-premise Hub server, the server will provide ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection's contents. This option is not available on community Galaxy.

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming "Automation Hub, self-hosted pulp, and on-premise hub server" are all different servers that provide ASCII armored?

Still don't understand the difference between the Galaxy server and those mentioned above.

Reviewer: `Galaxy` refers to galaxy.ansible.com.

That's not what was meant here, hence the fix, but the docs use `Galaxy server` often even when it may mean/include AH/pulp, perhaps since we have configuration options called `GALAXY_SERVER` and `GALAXY_SERVER_LIST` (which are used to configure Ansible with any galaxy server, not just Galaxy).

Automation hub is https://cloud.redhat.com/api/automation-hub/.

Author: Yes thanks to both of you. This requires a bit more thought. We have :

- Galaxy - which historically meant galaxy.ansible.com
- Automation Hub,  -which is a Red Hat product
- selfhosted (which can be Automation Hub, and I think what the repository calls galaxyNG )

I don't actually know what pulp is, outside of galaxyNG self-hosted?  But I think what I need to do is start a conversation on naming, because we will definitely have an overalp of galaxy.ansible.com and galaxyNG to deal with. I'll put this PR in WIP for now.

Author: Looks like we've resolve this to:

- Galaxy - refers to galaxy.ansible.com
- Self-hosted Galaxy refers to the GalaxyNG codebase

I'll update the PR and add this to the glossary as well.

Verifying against ``tar.gz`` files is not supported. If your ``requirements.yml`` contains paths to tar files or URLs for installation, you can use the ``--ignore-errors`` flag to ensure that all collections using the ``namespace.name`` format in the file are processed.

.. _verify_signed_collections:

Verifying signed collections
-----------------------------

> If a collection has been signed by a :term:`distribution server`, the server will provide ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection's contents. TThis option is not available on all distribution servers. See :ref:`distributing_collections` for a table listing which servers support collection signing. See :ref:`installing_signed_collections` for how to verify a signed collection when you install it.

Author: ```suggestion
If a collection has been signed by a :term:`distribution server`, the server will provide ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection's contents. This option is not available on all distribution servers. See :ref:`distributing_collections` for a table listing which servers support collection signing. See :ref:`installing_signed_collections` for how to verify a signed collection when you install it.
```

To verify a signed installed collection:

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection verify my_namespace.my_collection  --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx

Use the ``--signature`` option to verify collection name(s) provided on the CLI with an additional signature. This option can be used multiple times to provide multiple signatures.

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection verify my_namespace.my_collection --signature https://examplehost.com/detached_signature.asc --signature file:///path/to/local/detached_signature.asc --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx

Optionally, you can verify a collection signature with a ``requirements.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection verify -r requirements.yml --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx

> When a collection is installed from a self-hosted Galaxy server, the signatures provided by the server to verify the collection's authenticity are saved alongside the installed collections. This data is used to verify the internal consistency of the collection without querying the self-hosted Galaxy server again when the ``--offline`` option is provided.

Reviewer: self-hosted doesn't cover Automation Hub. I liked the original changes you made to this section.

Author: I'm less inclined to keep talking about AH here in the community docs as they have their own customer docs now. I can check with that team to see if they have this covered over on access.redhat.com yet tho

Reviewer: Isn't it general ansible-galaxy documentation though, which is not community-specific?

Reviewer: What do you think about `Pulp 3 (v3) Galaxy server` instead of `self-hosted Galaxy server`? That would keep it general. We could have a link to https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulp_ansible/ from the glossary. We would need to specify "excluding community Galaxy" for the signature stuff.

Author: Hmm good point on this being ansible-galaxy documentation that is likely not on access.redhat.com. I'll add AH back.  I'm I'm not sure if the pulp docsite is better/clearer than pointing to the GalaxyNG docsite that this PR does now.

So the original commit had `Automation Hub or self-hosted pulp or on-premise Hub server`. That to me misses out on galaxyNG (oh how I wish I could just call it galaxy NG :-).

So I'll ask the AH writing team if I can just call it Automation Hub, and then we can decide what to call the galaxyNG version.  Can you explain why Pulp 3 (v3) Galaxy is better than self-hosted Galaxy?

Reviewer: Pulp 3 (v3) covers AH and Galaxy NG. Perhaps it is not helpful in adding clarity to user docs, but it's more accurate. `ansible-galaxy` doesn't care whether a server is AH/NG/neither, it just needs to follow the v3 spec https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulp_ansible/restapi.html to have ansible-galaxy signature functionality.

Author: Ends up the AH on-prem doesn't fully support this feature, though when it does, the official name is Private Automation Hub.  That said, this is being documented separately for customers so I'll focus this as much as possible on Galaxy NG, which we can call Pulp 3 Galaxy.

Author: ok as I edit, I realize we already created a 'common term' for all of these besties  - a distribution server. So I'll go with  that and update the docs to match (as well as the table that lists the current options). More to come.
